=Log for 11-4-2014=
In order to distinguish between hurried and relaxed behavior I will have to add running and slow walking varieties of the current actions. I will have to see if it is worth the time it takes to implement that.

Also, I notice the gototoilet behavior does not work as planned. The pedestrian that waits for the other one does not wait long enough. Is this a mistake in the Petri net?  Do I use an old Petri net for this or is this because of how the actions in the multi agent simulator are implemented? Probably the second. A way to improve this would be to have the pedestrian that goes to the toilet go back to his friend. However, this will require a lot of extra coding.

On a second run, it seems that the gototoilet pedestrians get stuck in their Petri net and remain idle far after all the other pedestrians have gone to their goal.


=Log for 4-4-2014=
Today I finished writing the code to log the pedestrians' actions at every step. Now I have to tweak the parameters so that the pedestrians walk around for a reasonable time before going to their goal, run the simulation, analyse that run and see if I can find some interesting results.

=Log for 2-4-2014=
Today I will look at what is the best way to log the actions. In this log it is probably not possible to retrieve from which situation this action comes from, but hopefully this still gives enough information about the influence of time on the ratio of hurried behavior or actions vs relaxed behavior.
In this log I want to register the time at which the action is taken, or alternatively how much time is left until the deadline, whichever is more convenient to log. Secondly, I want the name of the action that is taken at that time. For this I will use the classname of the current IMasonAction implementation.
However, I don't know yet whether I can implement the logging of the actions in the implementations of the IMasonAction interface which seems the most conventient to me at the moment, or whether I have to do this somewhere else.

I just realize that if I keep track of which agent is performing the action, which is probably easier to find, it is not important to register the time at every log entry, because every pedestrian executes an action at every single timestep. I'm still in doubt though if this is the right way to analyze hurried or relaxed behavior but I'll see if it leads to useful graphs.

I started on writing the code for logging the actions but since I'm unable to concentrate any more I will continue this friday.

=Log for 31-3-2014=
I forgot to say an important point in my previous log. I only just noticed that my research questions don't mention anything about emergent behavior, even though that is an important aspect of my research. I think it would be better to add a subquestion in which I say something about emergence, or is it too late to add something like that?
Since my supervisor is not available this week I will work on running a few experiments in the meantime and see if I can make a nice graph showing the effect of time on hurried and relaxed behavior.

I have to change something about how everything is logged, because at the moment, it seems that I log whenever a pedestrian enters a certain situation. This means that whenever a pedestrian executes an action that is not part of a situation, but just part of the set of basic actions every pedestrian has, this is not logged. 


=Log for 28-3-2014=
Last time I started working too early again on my thesis. A few weeks again I tried again with more success.
At the moment I'm trying to decide what experiments to use and how to display my results so that I answer my research questions. I'm considering adding another subquestion that points out the importance of emergent behavior. Probably something along the lines of:
Is it possible to have emergent behavior such as variety in hurried and relaxed behavior result from setting a certain deadline?
This question needs to be tweaked.

Maybe if I do this I can categorize actions as either hurried or relaxed, and show how time influences the frequency of actions from these two categories.
Maybe it is important to add a few simple actions or tweak a few Petri nets so that there is a hurried and relaxed version of some behaviors.

Or maybe I can rate actions on how much time they take and put that in a graph. The x axis will be time left until the deadline and the y axis will be the average number of steps the chosen actions take at that moment or interval.

----

=Log for 3-9-2013=
Today I am going to start on my thesis again after a long time. Today I'm just doing some minor things, and read my thesis again. I am considering rewriting my code to make it less sloppy and buggy. Maybe I have to search for better Petri net software.







=Log for 16-2-2012=
I wanted to easily make the behavior more interesting and varied so added "stand still" behavior to the whole area, but the implementation now prevents infinite loops into certain behavior by making sure a behavior cannot be done multiple times when an agent is still in a certain situation area but is this what we want for the "standing still" situation? Probably this implementation is still the best choice but it makes standing still more "artificial looking" because the areas in which the agents are able to stand still have to be manually placed.

=Experiments on 15-2-2012=
How am I going to do the experiments? Since I vary the functions of the go-to-goal behavior at the moment, I should check the frequency of the firing of transitions to other situations.
We should count how many times a transition to a certain situation is fired at a certain timestep (measured with respect to the time of the deadline)